---
layout: report
title: "Financial Accountability in 2019-2020"
author: Sophie Schoenmeyer and Matthew Wang
date: 2020-09-28 10:21:42 UTC
blurb: "The focus of this report is on documenting the committee's use of its resources to further its mission statement: the provision of equitable K-12 computer science education in Los Angeles."
---

This report summarizes ACM Teach LA's finances for the 2019-2020 academic year. The focus of this report is on documenting the committee's use of its resources to further its mission statement: the provision of equitable K-12 computer science education in Los Angeles.

## Table of Contents

{::options parse_block_html="true" /}

<div class="text-15x">

* [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
* [Key Points](#key-points)
* [General Summary](#general-summary)
    * [COVID-19](#covid-19)
* [Expense Breakdowns](#expense-breakdowns)
    * [School-by-School](#school-by-school)
    * [Quarter-by-Quarter](#quarter-by-quarter)
    * [Transportation vs Non-transportation](#transportation-vs-non-transportation)
* [Funding Sources](#funding-sources)
* [Raw Data](#raw-data)
* [Conclusion](#conclusion)

</div>

## Key Points

* The **majority** of 2019-2020 Teach LA expenses were directly related to outreach.
* Teach LA's primary sources of funding during the 2019-2020 academic year were the **UCLA Computer Science Department** and the **USAC Community service Mini Fund**.
* During the Fall and Winter quarters, **transportation to and from schools comprised the majority of the Teach LA budget**.
* **No costs were incurred during Spring Quarter** due to the COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent switch to virtual instruction.
* Teach LA maintained a **positive budget balance** in the 2019-2020 school year, but the net difference in CS Department funding will be applied to the 2020-2021 budget due to policy changes as a result of COVID-19.

## General Summary

Throughout the 2019-2020 school year, Teach LA continued to provide supplementary computer science classes, even when faced with unforeseen obstacles due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In the Fall and Winter quarters, ACM Teach LA taught four weekly classes:


1. CS Unplugged at Brockton Elementary School
2. Intro to Python at Emerson Middle School
3. Intro to Python at Sepulveda Middle School
4. Intro to AI & ML at North Hollywood High School (in collaboration with [ACM AI Outreach](https://uclaacmai.github.io/outreach/))

In the Fall and Winter quarters, transportation to these schools comprised **92%** of our budget.

In addition, Teach LA continued offering one-off speaker series events and expanded the dev team.

In the 2019-2020 school year, Teach LA maintained a positive budget balance. Teach LA received funding from the UCLA CS Department (faciliated through ACM @ UCLA as a whole) and from the [USAC CS Mini Fund](https://usac.ucla.edu/funding/docs/CS%20Mini%20Funding%20Cheat%20Sheet.pdf), with a total potential inflow of <b>$2,472.43</b>. In total, Teach LA expensed **$1470.72**, with **92%** ($1,350.19) being directly related to outreach.

Due to the unprecedented nature of the COVID-19 outbreak, the UCLA Computer Science Department instituted a "roll-over" policy for outstanding organization balances. As such, the net difference in Teach LA's CS Department funding of **$429.48** is applied to Teach LA's 2020-2021 budget.

### COVID-19

Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, ACM Teach LA shifted as much of its instruction to virtual spaces as possible. For the Spring Quarter, ACM Teach LA continued with reduced instruction for North Hollywood, and shifted to speaker series for Emerson; due to technical difficulties, Teach LA was unable to continue teaching Brockton and Emerson students.

Importantly, Teach LA did not have any costs associated with Spring Quarter due to the COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent virtual instruction (for both UCLA students and our LAUSD partner schools). As Teach LA conducted all events over Zoom, no transportation expenses were incurred.

## Expense Breakdowns

### School-by-School

<div id="school-by-school-pie-chart"></div>
<ul class="text-1x">
    <li>Sepulveda Middle School - $ 584.42</li>
    <li>North Hollywood High School - $ 576.27</li>
    <li>Brockton Elementary School - $ 153.48</li>
    <li>Emerson Middle School - $ 86.82</li>
    <li>Mark Twain Middle School - $ 37.47</li>
</ul>

### Quarter-by-Quarter

<div id="quarter-by-quarter-pie-chart"></div>
<ul class="text-1x">
    <li>Winter - $ 832.57</li>
    <li>Fall - $ 638.15</li>
    <li>Spring - $ 0</li>
</ul>

### Transportation vs Non-transportation

<div id="transportation-pie-chart"></div>
<ul class="text-1x">
    <li>Transportation - $ 1,350.19</li>
    <li>Non-Transportation - $ 120.53</li>
</ul>

## Funding Sources

### UCLA Computer Science Department

In the 2019-2020 school year, Teach LA received funding from the CS Department, a process facilitated through ACM @ UCLA as a whole. The majority of this donation was utilized for outreach purposes.

During each of the Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters, Teach LA received a **$450** allocation from the CS Department. The amount of funding received from the CS Department over the course of the 2019-2020 academic year thus totaled **$1,350**.

Due to the unprecedented nature of the COVID-19 outbreak, the CS Department instituted a “roll-over” policy for outstanding organization balances. Given that Teach LA did not incur any expenses during Spring Quarter as a result of the switch to virtual instruction during the COVID-19 outbreak, the net difference of CS Department funding (**$429.48**) will be applied to the organization's 2020-2021 balance.

### USAC Community Service Mini Fund

Teach LA also received funding from the CS Mini Fund during the 2019-2020 school year.

The CS Mini Fund is often used as a supplemental funding source for outreach organizations and typically covers costs associated with transportation, food, additional supplies, and more.

During Fall and Winter quarters respectively, Teach LA received **$828.98** and **$293.45** allocations from the CS Mini Fund. The total value of donations received from the CS Mini Fund during the 2019-2020 academic year was thus **$1,122.43**.

The majority of club expenses for which the CS Mini Fund donation was utilized related to outreach directly.

## Raw Data

[Download the data here.]({{site.baseurl}}/accountability/budget-19-20.json)

<details markdown="0">
    <summary>Open the table (click/tap here)</summary>
    <table class="budget-table">
        <tr>
            <th>
                Date
            </th>
            <th>
                Event
            </th>
            <th>
                Type
            </th>
            <th>
                Qty.
            </th>
            <th>
                Item
            </th>
            <th>
                Unit Cost
            </th>
            <th>
                Total Cost
            </th>
            <th>
                Funding Source
            </th>
            <th>
                Special Notes
            </th>
        </tr>
        {% for row in site.data.budget-19-20 %}
        <tr>
            <td>
                {{row.Date}}
            </td>
            <td>
                {{row.Event}}
            </td>
            <td>
                {{row.Type}}
            </td>
            <td>
                {{row.Item}}
            </td>
            <td>
                {{row.Qty}}
            </td>
            <td>
                {{row.Unit}}
            </td>
            <td>
                {{row.Total}}
            </td>
            <td>
                {{row.Source}}
            </td>
            <td>
                {{row.Notes}}
            </td>
        </tr>
        {% endfor %}
    </table>
</details>

## Conclusion

This concludes all publishable details about ACM Teach LA's financials. If there are any questions or concerns about the data provided, we respond to emails at [acmteachla@gmail.com](mailto:acmteachla@gmail.com).

We plan on continuing this trend of financial transparency in the 2020-2021 academic year, even as the majority of our activities remain online. We are committed to transparency as a core tenet of our organization.

<script src="https://cdn.plot.ly/plotly-latest.min.js"></script>
<script>
    fetch('{{site.baseurl}}/accountability/budget-19-20.json')
    .then(response => response.json())
    .then(data => {
        let sepulveda = 0;
        let emerson = 0;
        let brockton = 0;
        let north_hollywood = 0;
        let mark_twain = 0;
        let fall = 0;
        let winter = 0;
        let spring = 0;
        let transportation = 0;
        let non_transportation = 0;

        for (let i=0; i<data.length; i++) {
            let total = Number(data[i]["Total"].replace("$",""));

            let event = data[i]["Event"];
            if (event === "Sepulveda Middle School") {
                sepulveda+=total;
            }
            else if (event === "Emerson Middle School") {
                emerson+=total;
            }
            else if (event === "Brockton Elementary School") {
                brockton+=total;
            }
            else if (event === "North Hollywood High School") {
                north_hollywood+=total;
            }
            else if (event === "Mark Twain Middle School") {
                mark_twain+=total;
            }

            let date = data[i]["Date"];
            if (date.substring(0, 2) === "10" || date.substring(0, 2) === "11" || date.substring(0, 2) === "12") {
                fall+=total;
            }
            else if (date.substring(0, 2) === "1/" || date.substring(0, 2) === "2/" || date.substring(0, 2) === "3/") {
                winter+=total;
            }
            else if (date.substring(0, 2) === "4/" || date.substring(0, 2) === "5/" || date.substring(0, 2) === "6/") {
                spring+=total;
            }

            let type = data[i]["Type"];
            if (type === "Transportation") {
                transportation+=total;
            }
            else {
                non_transportation+=total;
            }
        }

        let data_schools = [{
            values: [sepulveda, emerson, brockton, north_hollywood, mark_twain],
            labels: [
                'Sepulveda Middle School',
                'Emerson Middle School',
                'Brockton Elementary School',
                'North Hollywood High School',
                'Mark Twain Middle School'
            ],
            type: 'pie'
        }];

        let data_quarters = [{
            values: [fall, winter, spring],
            labels: ['Fall Quarter', 'Winter Quarter', 'Spring Quarter'],
            type: 'pie'
        }];

        let data_transportation = [{
            values: [transportation, non_transportation],
            labels: ['Transportation', 'Non-Transportation'],
            type: 'pie'
        }];

        // the -60 exists for gutter spacing
        let responsiveWidth = Math.min(window.innerWidth - 60, 500)

        let layout = {
            height: responsiveWidth * 4/5,
            width: responsiveWidth,
        };

        Plotly.newPlot('school-by-school-pie-chart', data_schools, layout);
        Plotly.newPlot('quarter-by-quarter-pie-chart', data_quarters, layout);
        Plotly.newPlot('transportation-pie-chart', data_transportation, layout);
    });
</script>
